# README

This README provides essential information to get the Rails application with basic user authentication using the `authentication-zero` gem up and running.

Using `authentication-zero` in a Rails application provides several benefits as it generates a pre-built authentication system. The advantages of `authentication-zero` are as follows:

`authentication-zero` allows developers to rapidly integrate a pre-built authentication system into their Rails application, saving significant time and effort compared to manual implementation of authentication features.

The gem follows security best practices, ensuring that the generated authentication system is designed to protect against common security threats. This includes secure password storage using hashing algorithms, protection against session hijacking, and more.

The authentication system generated by `authentication-zero` adheres to Rails best practices, aligning with the conventions and patterns recommended by the Rails framework. This ensures consistency with the broader Rails ecosystem and facilitates maintainability.

One of the key benefits is that it generates code directly into the user's application, providing developers with complete freedom to customize and tailor the authentication system to the specific needs of their application. Modifications can be made to match the app's unique requirements and user experience.

`authentication-zero` is suitable for web applications and API-only applications, accommodating a variety of application architectures allowing developers to choose the approach that best suits their project, whether it's a traditional web application or a modern API-only setup.

Since the authentication code is generated directly into the user's application, there is no dependency on an external library that may introduce vendor lock-in. Developers have full control over the codebase and are not tied to a specific library or service for authentication.

The generated authentication system is designed to be maintainable, and developers can easily update and extend the codebase as needed. This contributes to long-term stability and reduces the complexity of maintaining a custom authentication solution.

Developers can use `authentication-zero` as a learning tool. By examining the generated code, developers can gain insights into how authentication features are implemented securely and Rails-compliantly. This knowledge can be valuable for those looking to deepen their understanding of authentication in web development.

Leveraging `authentication-zero` means being part of a community of Rails developers with similar authentication patterns. This community support can be valuable for seeking advice, sharing best practices, and addressing challenges that may arise during development.
In summary, `authentication-zero` provides convenience and customization. It allows developers to quickly integrate a secure and Rails-friendly authentication system while retaining the flexibility to adapt it to their application requirements.


## Table of Contents

- [Ruby Version](#ruby-version)
- [System Dependencies](#system-dependencies)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Database Setup](#database-setup)
- [Database Initialization](#database-initialization)
- [Running the Test Suite](#running-the-test-suite)
- [Services](#services)
- [Deployment Instructions](#deployment-instructions)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Ruby Version

This application was developed using Ruby version 3.2.2. Ensure that you have the correct Ruby version installed. You can check and update your Ruby version using a version manager like RVM or rbenv.

```bash
# Example using RVM
rvm install 3.2.2
```

## System Dependencies

The system dependencies for this application are minimal. Ensure that you have Rails installed.

```bash
gem install rails -v 7.1.2
```

## Configuration

No additional configuration steps are required. The `authentication-zero` gem handles the necessary configuration for user authentication.

## Database Setup

To set up the database, run the following command to create the required tables:

```bash
rails db:migrate
```

## Database Initialization

No specific database initialization steps are required for this application.

## Running the Test Suite

To run the test suite, use the following command:

```bash
rails spec
```

This command will execute the test suite and provide feedback on the application's functionality.

## Deployment Instructions

To deploy the application, follow these general steps:

1. Configure your production environment variables.
2. Set up a production-ready database.
3. Precompile assets for production.

```bash
rails assets:precompile RAILS_ENV=production
```

4. Start the Rails server in production mode.

```bash
rails server -e production
```

Navigate to: https://localhost:3000/sign_in

5. Configure a web server (e.g., Nginx, Apache) to serve the application in a production environment.

For more detailed deployment instructions, refer to the official [Rails Deployment Guide](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/deployment.html).

## Contributing

If you would like to contribute to the development of this application, please follow our [Contribution Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## License

This Rails application is open-source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE). Feel free to use, modify, and distribute it as needed.
